This is the README file for MathSpad 0.80 .

Installation
------------

To install MathSpad, you can run the Install script. It will look
for a C and C++ compiler, compile the system, check if errors occurred
and install it. Afterwards (with your consent) an email message is sent to 
Eindhoven in order to keep track of the level of interested, the systems
it compiles on and any installation problems.

To install the program execute the command:

	./Install

It will install the system in the /usr/local directory if you have the
permission to do that. Otherwise the system will be installed in the
current directory. You can specify the full path as an argument if
you want to use a different location.

If you don't want the message to be sent or you are more familiar
with the GNU configure scripts, you can use the usual sequence:

	./configure
	make all
	make install


Testing
-------

After successfully installing the system, you can test if everything
works (and if the system is useful for you). You can do this with the
command

	src/mathpad manual &

The program will display a welcome document explaining what the system
offers you and how to go further.

(If you get the error message
 `mathpad: Unable to find font information file fonts.mpt'
 set the environment variable MATHPADHOME to "`pwd`/lib/mathpad.".)

If the warning 'Unable to add fontpath.' or 'Cannot load font ...' occurs,
you may need to do some extra work after you have decided to use the
program. The main problem with the installation is letting the X server
know where the extra fonts are located. MathSpad changes the font path
of the Xserver (if needed) but this will not always work:

  * The most general solution to the font problem would be to start
    up your own font server and add that font server to the font path
    of the X server.  This should work with local hosts, remote hosts,
    X terminals and X emulators.  The fonts directory contains some
    information on how to set up your own font server.
    NOTE: Be careful with adding fonts to a font server.  The X server
          and/or font server might crash with incorrect fonts. For
          example,  PostScript Type 3 fonts are not supported.

  * If you run MathSpad on a remote host, it will not know which
    directory contains the fonts on your local host. You can use the
    environment variable MATHPADFONTPATH to specify the correct
    directory on your local host (where the X server is running).

  * If you are using an X terminal, MathSpad is not able to change the
    font path because it needs to add a font server to the font path.
    You can set up your own font server or ask the system manager to
    adjust the configuration of the standard font server. There is an
    example configuration file for xfs in the fonts
    directory.

  * If you are using an X emulator (for MS Windows, for example), you need
    to convert the BDF fonts to the correct format. The X emulator should
    have a utility for this.


Cleaning Up
-----------

Once everything is working satisfactorily you may clean up by removing a 
number of files that are no longer necessary.  The procedure is very simple
but depends on whether or not the directory in which you have installed 
MathSpad is the same as the directory in which the Install program is located.
If they are the same then run the CleanUp program. If they are not
(for example, if you have installed MathSpad in /usr/local) then all you need 
to do is to remove the directory containing the Install program (lock, stock 
and barrel).


Suggestions, comments, wishes, bugs
-----------------------------------

If you have suggestions, comments or wishes, or if you have found bugs,
you can send them to mathpad@win.tue.nl and someone (I) will respond
as soon as possible.


Richard Verhoeven.
